# WHY-ARE-AQUACULTURE-POND-LINERS-IMPORTANT-
Aquaculture or aquafarming is a form of food production that includes the cultivation of aquatic organisms in a controlled, marine environment. It is the fastest-growing agriculture sector in the world. Since this practice requires special attention and continuous investment during the time of cultivation, using pond liners aids in conservation and cuts down on associated risks like contamination, exposure to UV rays, etc.  Aquaculture pond liners are, therefore, important for various reasons. Aquaculture pond liners can be used in hatchery trays, tanks, and ponds. The nature of their material also provides them with a lot of different properties that make it a necessity in this industry. There are four major reasons why pond liners are very important for an Aquaculture pond.  Conserving water:  In Aquaculture, water management and conservation are key to effective cultivation. Which means preventing water loss and maintaining the quality of the water is important. This is why it is imperative for the material to be puncture-resistant. Pond liners are also easy to clean and maintain which makes it easy for aqua-farmers to prevent diseases in the stock.  Preventing contamination:  Aquaculture pond liners are made of reinforced polyethene. The properties of the material eliminate the threats of chemicals and additives leeching into the water and also prevent water loss thanks to their impermeable membrane. This makes sure that the fish crops are not damaged by external pollutants. These liners are also safe for potable water containment and the prevention of pollution from external factors, making them safe for fishes and underwater plants.  Maintaining thermal stability:  Different fishes require different water temperatures to thrive. Fishes are cold-blooded by nature and usually need a fairly consistent temperature for their bodily functions to continue without any hiccups. Consistent water temperatures are required to maintain a high metabolism and high energy production without which the appetite of some fishes diminishes. Aquaculture pond liners provide the required thermal stability to make sure there aren’t any sudden and drastic temperature changes.  Providing UV resistance:  UV rays are a double-edged sword. While they have purifying properties, they also promote the growth of algae. Algae can be really harmful to the growth of fish as they can deeply affect the oxygen levels of the water. Combined with the ability to provide this thermal stability, the UV-resistant nature of the liners ensures that there are no risks of algae growth.  Finding the ideal aquaculture pond liner is crucial for any aquaculture stint. The features that we have established in our pond liners meet all your requirements of low permeability, ultraviolet and exceptional chemical resistance. The MegaLinerTM HDPE &amp; LLDPE Smooth liners are ideal for water aquaculture ponds owing to their high-resistance to many solvents and wear and tear underwater. The high-density configuration of our liners also prevent contaminants from permeating into the tank or pond. Megaplast’s HDPE &amp; LLDPE Smooth geomembrane sheets are the best cost-effective solution for a profitable aquaculture venture.  Need the perfect geomembrane for your Aquaculture pond?  Send us your requirements at info@mega-group.in or contact us at +91 022 - 6106 6000. To know more: https://www.megaplast.in/blog-single.php?slug=why-are-aquaculture-pond-liners-important-
